Just like node has
the Express web framework,
Dino has a web framework as well,
and it's called Oak.
We would not want to implement routing and
templates and all of the different
things that we need to build
a proper web application ourselves.
All right, as we've already seen,
we have to bring in URL search params and
we're trying to parse out
query parameters, and
we're trying to return HTML, and
then, it's just way too much work.
And so,
typically we have web frameworks that
sit on top of things like node
to make this easier for us.
And since Dino loves anagrams,
Oak is an anagram for Koa.
You may have heard of Koa before,
the Koa project,
if you Google it, here we go.
And so Koa was created by the same
fellow who built Express,
and it's built on JavaScript generators,
which are a construct that you
don't see very much in JavaScript.
I think it's something that
never quite caught on.
I think we could disagree about that,
but you just don't see them very much or
use them very much.
And so
most people are still using Express.
And what I want to do is take a look at
Express for those who are not familiar.
If you are familiar, very familiar with
Express, this will be a bit of a review,
but for people who aren't,
I want to take a look at it.
Because what we're gonna do is sort of
compare Oak to Express instead of to Koa.
But Koa looks a lot like Express,
and Oak looks exactly like Koa.
The big difference is that Oak does not
come with all the baked-in middleware that
Express does, it's sort of a minimal
version of that in a lot of ways.
Middleware is code that is executed
on the request to the server.
So the request comes in, and
then you execute some operation on it.
And then you send a response, and
the middleware is everything that you do
to the request as it's moving through.
Express also has this really nice
scaffolding tool where it will just give
you an Express application with
all of the different files and
the project structure and
everything already there for you.
And so what I want to do is I want
to build up with you an opinionated
project set up around Oak that mimics
what you get today with Express.
But before we do that,
let's look at exactly what Express does.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to
create a new project with Express.
And if you have node installed,
this should work just fine for you, you
don't need to have the Express generator.
But let's start on a new tab here.
Let me just go back to my home folder.
All right, so let's do this,
and Windows terminal is
warning me because the line
break character got copied in.
And so basically it's saying, hey,
when you paste this, it's gonna execute,
you sure you wanna do that, in case you
pasted something malicious, but yeah,
I'm fine with it.
So what this is gonna do is scaffold out
a new Express app called my-express-app,
which it did.
And now it wants us to move into
that directory which we are, and
do npm install which I already did.
I must have done it as
part of the command here.
Yeah, npm install, perfect.
Okay so let's open this app and
have a look at it.
All right,
this is your standard Express app.
It's not fancy,
it's what you get right out of the box.
Express generator hasn't changed much,
it's still using var,
even though you don't see
var that much anymore.
This is obviously node because we've got
a lot of these require statements in here.
But if we take a look at
what's happening in this file,
we've got a couple of routers which
are coming from our routes folder here.
And we're basically telling
the app to use these routers.
We've got some templates here
in our views, using handlebars,
so that index template.
We have a layout which
applies to every page, so
maybe we have a common nav
bar that goes in the layout.
And then there's some other stuff,
there's a logger and we're doing things to
make sure there's JSON support, working
with cookies, then handling 404 errors.
And then finally over
here in the bin folder,
we're actually starting
the server get started.
And, of course, all this is scaffolded
out for us, but it's actually down here.
Okay, so we want to execute this.
Remember we talked about the fact
that node doesn't care what the file
extension is, or
even if you don't have one, so that's why.
This has always struck me as
being weird about Express, but
Express has this www file, which is
a JavaScript file with no extension.
I don't know why they chose to do that.
But node doesn't care in the slightest,
and we'll run this.
We're probably conflicting over here.
Let's try this again.
All right, let's go to localhost 3000.
All right, so
this is the Express application,
let me back off of it a little bit.
This is just what you get out of the box.
They include a couple routes for you.
So there's this user's route, which
just says respond with a resource, but
they're just showing you you can have
multiple routes here, very standard stuff.
If you've used Express before, you're
like, yeah, I already know all this.
Okay, I gotcha.
But the reason why I'm showing you this
is because what I want to do is for
us to build up something very similar
with Dino and see what does it look like.
How hard is it for us to build
something that looks like this?
And what are the differences
between doing that in node and
doing that with Dino, so
let's take a look at that.